---
ID: 43
post_title: Chili
author: mkelley
post_date: 2015-08-27 11:44:42
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://recipebox.mkelley.net/recipes/2015/08/chili/
published: true
---
Here's my base chili recipe. I've had this recipe for over 10 years and it's not a ketchup-base, it's using a chili sauce base instead. A little warmer than most recipes. Cut back on beans if you want.

For the photo, I substituted the cayenne and chili powder with rehydrated chilies. I also didn't simmer the pot on the stove and instead had it in the oven at 250 for 6 hours. Darker more chocolatey flavor.

3 tablespoons butter
2 large onions, chopped
4 garlic cloves, chopped
2 pounds ground beef
2 1/2 tablespoons chili powder
1 tablespoon ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1 28-ounce can crushed tomatoes
1 14 1/2-ounce can beef broth
2 medium white potatoes, peeled, diced
2 large carrots, peeled, diced
1 bell pepper, diced
3/4 cup chili sauce
1 15 1/4-ounce can kidney beans, drained
1 15-ounce can pinto beans, drained
Melt butter in heavy large saucepan or Dutch oven over medium heat.
Add onions and garlic and sauté until almost golden, about 8 minutes.
Add beef and cook until brown, breaking beef up with fork, about 10
minutes. Stir in chili powder, cumin and cayenne and continue cooking
3 minutes. Mix in tomatoes, broth, potatoes, carrots, bell pepper and
chili sauce. Simmer until vegetables are tender, about 1 hour. Stir in
beans. Simmer until beans are heated through and vegetables are very
tender, about 30 minutes.